Our next topic is discussion, this is a very important topic because a lot of functions or the procedures
can be written using recursion, that is, they can be written as recursive functions.
So let us learn about them.
So what are the topics that I'm going to cover in this video?
What is the recursion?
Example I take can explain by tracing of that recursion how to trace it, how to know the output of
recursion, then recursion uses track.
So what does it mean?
How do you do this track that I'm going to explain you then?
Also, I'll show you how to find the time and complexity of any recursive function.
So let us start with what is recursion now before showing you recursion?
First of all, let me remind you one thing here.
I have one example program that is the main function and one function called function funding.
And this main function is calling this function.
So how dysfunction call is made, how it works.
Let me remind you this already you have explained you in my previous video, let us look at it again.
See, once I start executing my program, it will start executing Fomin function faster to execute the
first statement and second statement than the third statement is function call.
It goes to this function and those inside execute first statement, second and third statement.
Once it has finish, the function ends and the control come back to the same line.
That is third line.
If any more operations present in this line, they will execute.
Otherwise it will execute fourth line and fifth tonight.
What does it mean by any other operations?
For example, this function is returning something and here I have written multiplied by two something.
So the value of that function has to be multiplied by two.
So this multiplication will be done once the function has a return here with some value.
Assume that that function has a return of ten.
So ten in two can be done only if this function has already done the research.
So once again, quickly, program starts.
First line, second line, third line.
Control goes here first, second, third function and control returns.
Anything pending that will be done and then the remaining statements.
This is the important point that we should remember for understanding recursion.
So let me explain the next level recursion.
Let us look at a general form of recursion.
So here I have an example, a recursive function.
So what does it mean by recursive function?
Our function is calling itself.
So if a function is calling itself, then it is called recursive function.
So function inside that if you see it is calling itself again.
So this is a recursive function.
Then one important thing inside recursions here, you can see that this is a base condition, conditions
that so there must be some base condition that will terminate recursion.
There must be some method to terminate this one.
Otherwise it will go away and go in finite calling.
It is just like this, what we call the function first time.
Then it will call itself again.
Call itself again.
It calls itself repeatedly.
It will be calling again and again.
So there must be some condition at which it must stop.
So in this example, this will call itself if the condition is true or it can stop if the conditions
or whatever it is, at some point, it must stop.
So here is the condition become false.
It will not call further and it stops.
So finally, let us look at again a function calling itself is called recursion.
And inside recursive function, there must be some condition which will make the recursion stop terminate.
So in my example, if the condition become false, it will stop.
That's it.
So let us take some example of recursive function and study how it works.
Let us look at an example.
Let me explain the example.
I have a main function which is having some value and calling function function by passing that X and
function function, taking parameter NP.
And if the condition is true, it is printing and then calling itself.
I have you also see language code here.
So it's printing and again calling itself for a reduced value of and if whatever and it's supposed and
there's a file then it will call itself for four.
So if I am passing through from here, what will be the result, how it works.
Let us trace this recursive function and check.
Now, tracing how to trace recursive function, recursive functions are traced in the form of a tree,
so Lichtman started tracing this one see inside the function.
There are two steps that it has to perform.
If this condition is to force the students to Prince again step, it has to call itself bypassing and
minus one.
And this it has to do on leave and there's a greater than zero.
Let us start from here.
I'm calling function fun one by passing exit that is mandatory.
So here, fun one by passing three.
So first time it has got three.
Three is greater than zero.
Yes.
First step, Brent.
And so first strippers print three.
Then what is the second step goal itself.
Again, fun one, four, three minus one.
That is two.
So it will call itself again by passing fun of to see inside the function.
There are two steps.
Both steps have completed.
First step was sprinting and the second step is called sprinting.
It's nothing but output.
So what is the output they got so far?
Output is three.
Then what about this?
It's a call again.
Whether this call has finished nor it has completed Faslane second line, it has not yet came out of
the function.
It has not yet came out of the function.
It has to come out, but it is calling this one.
So let us execute this phone off to again, start to do is greater than zero.
Yes, two steps.
So the first step is trying to do so, the output to then go on it.
So for and minus one so full of.
One.
Now, still, the school has not finished, it has printed and it has to call this one.
So again, a new fresh call, again, a fresh call so that fresh colors fun one with one.
So fun, what with one one is great.
Then later, we also perform two things for sister friend one.
So in output we get one.
Then the second thing is called for one minus one.
So fun, one of one minus one is zero one zero one one zero and that is zero greater than zero.
No, it is not greater than zero.
It will not enter inside.
So it will not perform these two steps and it does nothing.
So no printing and no calling and it will not enter inside and it will come out of the function.
So this call doesn't do anything.
So there is no further calling then what it has to do.
It will go back to the previous function and come out of the function.
So this function finishes it, go back to the previous function that is in this line and come out afterwards.
There is nothing remaining.
So it will simply come out and go back to this function and come out of this one.
Then it will come back to mean and terminates.
So from this call, it goes back to the previous caller and then previous call, just like the we just
now have shown you how a function terminates and it goes back to the place from where it was called.
So this is a tree and this is called Preysing Tree of Recursive Function, and this is the output.
Now, I will take one more example and show you.
So this example, I'll just move it aside and then I'll use this portion for you.
Next example.
No, I have one more example of a recursive function.
This is more similar to the first one.
Let me compare them and show you if you check the main function, having variable X and calling function
function here also mean having variable X and calling function frontal insight fun.
One, it is taking parameter and and greater than zero.
Two things are done here.
Also taking parameter and greater than zero things are done.
But the differences here are sprinting and then calling itself.
But here first it is calling itself then printing.
Then what will be the output.
So let us trace this one.
So this is a minor difference between these two functions.
Let us stress.
So from here I start first main function is calling this function Fundo.
So by passing value three, so frustrating function will be this is three three and this three.
So three is greater than zero.
Yes.
So first statement as work, call it some form minus one second statement is print.
So first the statement.
It will call itself for Fundo of two and three or three minus one, two.
Then what about the next statement printing it will not be done first.
This call has to finish, then only it will print.
So let us take this call.
Let us finish this one.
So it will call itself again that any call to two two is greater than zero.
Again, two steps.
So first step is Colvert and minus one.
So and this is two.
So it will call itself for fun.
Two of one and second statement.
It will be done after this first statement has finished.
What is the first statement?
Fungo one one is greater than zero.
So call it for a minus one.
So again, next call, fun two of one minus one is zero and pretending that they were done afterwards
first.
This has to finish.
Not one of zero, that is one two zero zero zero zero zero.
No, sir, it will not enter inside this F block and it will come out so it does nothing.
So this call, the department zero has terminated now once this call has been terminated, the control
should go back to the previous call.
So previous call was this one.
It was called from here.
So it will go back to this function call and this line in this line.
This line was this one.
So this has finished.
Now the next line is Sprent.
And so what is and value one single point one.
So the output as first output is one.
Then it will go back to the previous call and second thing that is remaining here, that is printing,
printing, it has to do so.
The value to print that, then this will come out of this and finish.
So this call finishes it goes back to the previous call.
In that call, it has completed this one of two.
You can see that this complete full of two is in deep, it is complete.
And then the second statement print.
And so the value of this three.
So this is three.
So this is the output of this function.
So you can see that the function values are one, two, three.
And here the output was three to one.
Now let us compare them and this function first the printing was done and the recursive call was made
print and then call print and then call print and then call.
But here first call is made.
Then printing is done.
So first call.
Then call.
So again now Redenbach print.
Written print.
So here printing was done at counting time before the function is called printing was done.
But here printing is a done at a time.
When the function is returning to the previous caller, the previous call, so at the reading time,
printing is done.
And the difference here is printing is done after the function call.
So that portion will be done that are done in time.
So I have shown you the differences between them.
Now, let me take one example and show you the differences among them.
See, suppose there is a room.
And there is a boat in the room.
Under the law and from that room, you can enter into one more room.
This is the door for it and there is a fixed in this one.
And one more door, there is a bulb fixed and this one.
This is a room one and room two and room three, three rooms, and each room is having a ball.
Now, if I give you the instruction saying that switch on bulb, second step is go to the next room.
So these are the two steps if I asked you to perform recursively, so there are rooms like this, right?
So nested room, room, inside room.
Now, if I make you stand here and ask you to perform this recursively, then what you will do better.
Check your decision.
One first step.
Second step.
You'll go to the next room.
So the first ball that you have switched on, this one, let us call it output, then you will enter
in the next room, then hear what you'll do again recursively.
So switch on bulb.
So you'll switch on second bulb and then go to the next room.
You'll end to this next room.
Then in this room again, first step is switch on bulb.
So you'll switch on third Terbil and go to the next room.
There is no next room for.
So it was more like a recursive call, a function calling itself again and function calling itself again.
Now this is termination.
There is no next room.
What you will do now, you will definitely come out of those rooms you vodcast finished.
So from third room you will come back to the second room.
What will you do anything now?
No, you will simply come out, you'll come out in the first room, then you will come out of the first
four months.
So third, the second, second, first.
Then you'll come out and you simply come out.
Nothing will do.
So it means first stage was you were entering in.
So it was just like calling.
And after you have finished this one, you cannot go further, so you'll return back.
So this is returning.
So you have gone through two phases.
One is the calling phase, either one is returning phase, or I can say that this was ascending and
then descending.
So you are going to next, next, next, next ascending.
Then you came back and back and back.
So descending.
So you have done ascending and descending and descending time.
You have not done anything.
Now, I'll give you one more example.
One more example.
First step is go to the next room, go to the next room and second step is switch on bulb.
These are the two steps I have changed the order you can see.
Go to the next room, then switch on bulb.
Now, let's see if these are performed.
Then what will that result?
If you are here, then I have given you two instruction.
Go to next fall, then second step, a switch on bulb.
So first what you'll do.
You'll not switch on bulb, you'll go to the next room.
Then there again, the first step is go to the next room.
Silvo the next room.
There again, the first step is go to the next room so there is no next room, there are no rooms further
than you'll perform.
Second step, second.
So the first bulb to be switched on as tugboat then definitely will come back to the previous room.
And in this room, you'll switch on second one and you'll come back to the first room switch on first.
But that's it.
So I have two different versions of steps here and first set of steps, second bulb go the next room.
So the ball's first featured in this order.
One, two, three.
So there is the recursive call.
This is very passive on first perform the operation, then the recursive call here first the recursive
call, then perform the operation.
So the main important thing that I have to show you here in the caution is that recursion has two phases.
One is calling phase and the other one is written in phase.
So both were switched on by going.
Both were switched on while returning.
So if you see this recursion print and then call switch on, then go to the next room.
So this is the same as that one.
And if you see this one, go to the next room, then switch on.
So here in this example, first go to the next room.
That is make a call and then print.
So this is similar to this one.
So finally, I can say that recursive functions are just like a rubber band if you stretch a rubber
band bullet.
So next, next, next, next.
If you release, it will come back.
It will come back, so save me recursive function, call and call and call and then return Rigi.
So there are two phases, so that's all these are compared.
But one thing that may confuse you, just let us look at this one.
See, the first value was three to three to one for the printing was three to one.
But here the room numbers are one, two, three.
Don't compare this with that one.
Just understand the procedure, how it is working.
Otherwise they can change the room number three to one also so that output will be similar to that.
So the important thing that we have learned is that recursion and have two phases.
One is calling phase and one is returning phase nine.
Right.
Additional general form of recursive function once again and.